of what uses anger when the same end can
be arrived at by reason do you suppose
that a hunter is angry with the beasts
he kills Seneca anger is an emotion that
everyone experiences at some point in
their lives there are different ways in
which anger manifests and also different
ways to handle it some people throw
temper tantrums when they don't get
their way others respond with anger when
they are in danger and a respectable
amount of people cling to the idea of
being wronged which results in a form of
anger that slowly consumes us also known
as resentment in this video I would like
to talk about anger the dangers of anger
and some suggestions on how to deal with
it from a stoic and Buddhist perspective
[Music]
even though anger is natural we cannot
deny that the consequences of
unrelenting and uncontrolled anger can
be devastating it's not uncommon that
anger leads to murder and history has
taught us that deeply rooted anger also
called hate can lead to mass violence
war and even genocide still many people
justify anger calling it righteous anger
when I have solid reasons to be angry
also people see anger as a functional
emotion that assists us in asserting
ourselves and self-defense and Aristotle
declared anger to be a desire to repay
suffering we could also see anger as a
form of energy and when harvested the
right way it may help us to attain our
goals stoic philosopher Seneca however
is critical towards the validity of
these claims telling us that anger is a
form of madness I quote for it is
equally devoid of self-control
regardless of decorum forgetful of
kinship obstinately engrossed in
whatever it begins to do deaf to reason
and advice excited by trifling causes
awkward that's perceiving what is true
and just and a very like a falling rock
which breaks itself to pieces upon the
very thing which it crushes end quote
there's a Buddhist story that challenges
the notion of righteous anger by telling
us about a young boy with a bad temper
his father was concerned about this but
instead of fighting anger with anger he
gave the boy a bag of nails and a hammer
he told him to hammer a nail into the
fence every time he loses his temper at
the first day the boy hammered about 30
nails and offense but when the days
passed the daily amount of nails
decreased until the day came that the
boy didn't lose his temper once he
proudly told his father who gave his son
the instruction to pull out a nail every
time he was able to suppress his temper
finally the day arrived that all nails
were pulled out the father showed his
son defence and said well done my son
however I want you to look closely at
the fence it's full of holes which means
that it has been changed forever when
you let anger out it will leave scars
you can stick a knife in someone and
pull it out but no matter how often you
apologize the score will be there
forever and quote even when we may seem
to have a very good reason to be angry
which is basically a sense of being
wronged and violated we only risk to do
further damage especially to ourselves
if we throw our ability to reason in the
gutter and let our emotions take over
when reason ends anger begins set the
Dalai Lama now there are many different
forms of anger there's rage surliness
resentment bitterness harshness
there's temporary anger that lasts a few
minutes and a long-term anger that lasts
a lifetime Tibetan Buddhist monk geshe
Yong dong distinguished two types of
anger hot anger and cold anger the first
type of anger is the one that
figuratively speaking sets oneself and
the surroundings on fire the second type
of anger is the one that's internalized
and repressed and can be carried along
for years and it's one up inside
according to Seneca we should not
confuse human anger with the aggression
we see in animals since human anger is
based on flawed reasoning while animal
aggression is based on impulses a
fundamental difference between animals
and humans is our ability to
Seneca doubts the usefulness of anger
for humanity by explaining the nature of
anger compared to the nature of man I
quote yet
what is more savage against them than
anger mankind is born for mutual
assistance anger for mutual ruin the
former loves society the letter and
strange meant the one loves to do good
the other to do harm the one to help
even strangers the other to attack even
its dearest friends the one is ready
even to sacrifice itself for the good of
others the other to plunge into peril
provided it drags others with it and
quote now is anger useful both Buddhist
and stoic ideas agree on one point anger
is not useful the Dalai Lama pointed
this out in his book a policy of
kindness stating that anger is not
necessary when we have the power of
reason moreover when we resort to using
force we probably don't have good
reasons to do so I quote if there are
sound reasons or basis for the points
you demand then there is no need to use
violence on the other hand when there is
no sound reason that concessions should
be made to you but mainly your own
desire then reason cannot work and you
have to rely on force thus using force
is not a sign of strength but rather a
sign of weakness and quote therefore
when we are about to throw a tantrum
it's always good to ask ourselves the
following question
am i doing this from a place of power or
from a place of powerlessness
according to Seneca there's nothing
reason cannot do what anger can in his
work of anger he makes a distinction
between using force and using force with
anger in some situations it is necessary
to use a force many people believe that
using force goes together with anger and
that being angry and somehow assist them
in their use of force but Seneca
compared anger to drunkenness in a
battle angry fighters have no control
over their movements like drugs
eventually their rashness leads to
defeat by a more intelligent opponent
that
isn't led by the patients so what can we
do about it
well anger comes in different stages it
may start with a light irritation which
then builds up to one angry outburst
when the letter is the case it's too
late
Seneca argues that in order to remedy
anger we should become aware of it in
the early stages and apply antidotes
when it's still small I quote that which
is diseased can never bear to be handled
without complaining
it is best therefore to apply remedies
to oneself as soon as we feel that
anything is wrong to allow oneself as
little license as possible in speech and
to restrain one's impetuous 'ti now it
is easy to detect the first growth of
our passions the symptoms precede the
disorder and quote so it is clear that
the Stoics preferred tranquility over
anger but how do we achieve this in
Buddhist as well as stoic sources we'll
find different approaches and ideas that
can help to kick anger to the curb an
important one is patience which
according to Seneca is a product of
reason the thought behind patience is
actually an important Buddhist doctrine
called impermanence everything is in
flux and what's happening in this moment
will soon be the past not only the
things that we are upset about will lose
their significance the feelings of anger
will start to subside
that's why counting to ten is excellent
advice although in some cases it may be
better to count 200 another one is
acknowledging that we are angry this
doesn't mean that we act out it's just
that we accept that the emotion is
present in our body denying the fact
that we are angry for example because we
want to be goody-goodies that never get
angry regardless of our true feelings
we're fooling ourselves and the world is
just another form of repression it will
end up in the unconscious we can just
say to someone I feel angry right now
without hitting the person with a rock
when we acknowledge our anger we create
space between the observer and the
emotion without identification with that
emotion this way it won't control us
another one is forgiveness which works
better when it comes to long
term anger like resentment when we
forgive we can finally give ourselves
permission to let go of the grudge's
that we have been carrying around for so
long the stoic idea of control is a good
argument to practice forgiveness
some things are inner control some
things aren't we can't change the past
we can't control what a person who
wronged us says does or feels but we can
change our position towards it we can
let go and forgive or we can choose to
drink poison and wait for the other
person to perish but it's more likely
that this leads to our own slow and
painful death
thank you for watching
you
[Music]